So what we want to achieve is a responsive design,
we want a design that allows us to adjust our layout to different device width and heights
and one thing we always have to keep in mind when developing a react native app is that by default, we got
no scroll view,
so if our content would overlap the edges of our window, then we just lose it,
we can't go there,
no scrolling bars are added automatically.
So how can we deal with that?
Just as we have the platform API for finding out on which platform we're running, we get the dimensions
API for finding out which dimensions our current window has, there we get two useful tools.
The first is a method, the get method.
With that we can get the current dimensions, we can get it for the window or the screen,
most of the time we're going to use the window,
the difference exists on Android, there
the window does not include the soft menu bar,
the screen does but since the soft menu bar would also overlap our content, we typically want to get
the window which doesn't include that.
So this is very useful for getting our current width and height and adjusting our layout,
however to do that at runtime when the user rotates the device, we need to be able to detect when our
window width and height changes because with get, we can get it
but getting it at the startup time of our app would not suffice. If the user starts in portrait mode,
we get a certain width but that width will be incorrect once user rotates the device,
therefore the dimensions API offers a second tool. We can listen to dimension changes,
so for example when the user rotates the device, that's actually the main source of dimension changes
on a mobile phone
since you can't really shrink the viewport.
So if this happens, we can execute some code and we simply add an event listener to the change event
on the dimensions API to get informed when that happens and then we can execute code to for example
change some layout, change some styling.
Let me show you how this works in our application.